Rika!
So, you've come
to another tragic ending.
Long ago, in my old life,
among mortal‐kind.
So great was my despair
at the viciousness of men,
that I took on the burden of
their sins and through this act,
cleansed the souls of those
for whom I gave my life.
And to bear the burden
of enacting this sacrifice.
I chose my own daughter.
For the millennia
that came after.
I would scorn the world
of men and its cruelty.
And yet, there's
nothing in any realm
that is without an end.
Before time's march,
buildings collapse,
and even the hardest
hearts grow soft.
The power which had kept me
from the world of men,
likewise crumbled in time.
Should the first born to
the Furude line be a girl
and all successors
for eight generations,
it is said that Oyashiro
shall be reincarnated.
And when you were born, Rika,
the eighth consecutive
female heir.
At long last, I was once again
able to see the world of man,
from which I had
turned away in disgust.
[HANYUU] My millennia spent
rejecting the world of humanity,
had been wasted in a cage
wrought from my own loneliness.
Perhaps that was just
desserts for my own sin.
I had charged my own daughter
with the task of ending my life,
an unthinkable burden.
As years passed, the line of
Furude women would carry on,
until at last,
your mother was with child.
I prayed fervently
you would be a girl
and then the pain of
loneliness would fade.
I would know my daughter again,
my first friend
in a thousand years.
The one with whom I was
bound to share my life.
But soon, in June of 1983,
as she first lived it.
Once again,
I would condemn her
to bear the weight of my sin.
[laughs]
[HANYUU] In order to avert
your fated death,
I granted you
the use of my power
and turned you into one
who lives in loops.
[TAKANO]
Easy, sleep well.
Rika, my dear.
[HANYUU] But that power
bore a flaw, and accepting it
would only bring you a
hundred years of suffering.
The ordeal drove your spirit
to the very brink of death
and you cursed the dice of fate
as they heaped yet more misery
upon you with each roll.
Yet, still,
you refused to give up.
Hanyuu Furude.
How do you do?
Awoo! She's adorable!
Wait, she said her
family name is Furude, too.
Yeah, just like mine!
She's actually a distant cousin!
[HANYUU]
And by the power of your will.
I went from spectator to
participant in your struggle.
[HANYUU]
Then...
Living in the world of man
is just a game of Old Maid.
I was dealt the Joker by chance
and there's
nobody left to take it.
But I can at least take
my revenge by shooting you all!
Isn't that only right,
in this irrational world?
Hanyuu?
[HANYUU]
Brave Mion,
you have demonstrated
more than enough courage.
If you're left with
the Joker in hand.
and if there is nobody else
who can relieve you of it
in the world of man,
then it shall be my duty
to bear that burden
in their place.
Hanyuu!
What are you trying to do?
[HANYUU] Rika, I had
so much fun in this world.
Joining you in club was
far more enjoyable
than watching
the games play out.
Thank you.
Our time together has
brought me more happiness
than a god could handle!
Aim and fire, child of man!
Shoot me, and let me
take up the weight of the sin
you must foist upon another!
[TAKANO]
Fine.
You wanna bear
the weight of my sins?
Then take it!
[HANYUU] After witnessing
a miracle in the world of men.
I resumed my place within
the sea of fragments.
Rika, may you sleep restfully.
And have sweet dreams.
Rika.
Though I knew what it meant.
Getting to be here with you
once more, it made me happy.
[OOISHI]
You're gonna tell me!
[OOISHI] Tell me! Tell me!
Tell me! Tell me!
Tell me!
[screams]
It's okay. You're no
longer in any danger, Rika.
[HANYUU] The pain you feel
is but a memory.
You need only calm down,
and it will quickly subside.
[RIKA gasping]
Ooishi.
He's the one who killed me.
[gasps]
Somehow, I'm able to remember
who my killer was this time!
What's happening?
Your own foolishness
binds you to your fate.
If only you'd stayed
with the cat until the end,
perhaps you could have saved her
from the predicament in
which she now finds herself.
So Rika can remember
who killed her?
I'm not concerned
about it in the least.
In fact, I'd say we should
welcome this development.
[RIKA]
For a century.
A hundred years in Hinamizawa,
caged like a bird!
Helplessly witnessing tragedy
after senseless tragedy!
It took a miracle for
Keiichi and the others
to keep my soul alive this long!
I lived through 1983 and
the five years after it,
but now I'm trapped
in this little girl's body
all over again!
I finally escaped
from that village.
I grew up, and moved on,
and started a new life!
Then suddenly,
after all those years,
I was dragged back
to Hinamizawa!
Do you understand
what that means?
[RIKA]
Even if this new power works.
Even if I can break the cycle
again, years could pass,
and I could still wake up
in 1983 again someday!
I might never be free!
I'm so sorry.
I need to know
you're here, or else,
I'll have to fight this
endless battle by myself!
[sobs]
[HANYUU]
Rika, this is something I hoped
I would never
have cause to tell you.
But for your sake, it shall
be my parting message.
In truth, of the many
artifacts bearing my name,
there is one more holy,
one more powerful
than any other by far.
It's a sword by the
name of Onigari‐no‐ryuou.
Its blade has the
ability to sever the loops
and offer an end to
those for whom death
is but another beginning.
Those who live in loops
can be killed by that?
But you are not just
a mere fledgling anymore.
Huh?! No!
This is our last farewell, Rika.
From here on, your life and
your future are yours to shape,
and yours alone.
Don't go!
Stop, Hanyuu!
Wait, please!
Don't forget to enjoy
a cream puff for me
every now and again, okay?
I could only hold on through
those hundred years
because I had you!
Please. Don't leave me now.
I need you here!
You can't go!
I can't do this.
Hanyuu.
I'd like to play hide and seek.
Hide and seek?
Not what I expected.
But it's always fun, right?
Okay, so where
will the boundaries be?
Would the school grounds work?
I should say we'll need
a bigger arena than that.
[RIKA] Any place in
Hinamizawa will be fair game.
As in the entire village?
That may be too big.
[chortles]
With my trapping skills
and knowledge of the terrain,
I certainly won't be caught.
Actually,
in this version,
the only one hiding is me.
[MION]
How's that work?
[SATOKO]
Rika!
I know this is
where you're hiding,
so you may as well come out now!
That's right.
I came here when we
were playing hide‐and‐seek.
I snuck into the ritual tool
storehouse to hide,
but Rika took all
the blame for it.
And the punishment.
It wasn't me!
I swear I haven't
done anything wrong!
I'm so sorry!
And how long ago was that?
Centuries now, I'm sure.
But I could hardly say how many.
[SATOKO] It would be foolish
to allow Rika to get her hands
on a weapon as
dangerous as this.
Silly Hanyuu.
What happened to it?
Where's the sword
you had promised me?
That parting gift
I never asked you for.
You offered it to me
and now it's not here!
[laughing]
[KEIICHI]
All right, Mion.
We're following your gut.
Think she's here at the shrine?
[RENA] Well, the shrine
is where Rika lives.
She probably knows all of the
best hiding spots around here.
Yes, but it's also where I live,
and I already checked
those hiding spots.
[MION] If Rika's really trying
to keep us from finding her,
she's at the shrine for sure.
[KEIICHI]
Rika!
[SATOKO]
If you can hear us,
please come out!
[RENA]
You won, Rika!
Now come talk to us, okay?
[MION] You may have
beaten us this time,
but tomorrow's
another day, got it?
With this shard,
I finally have a way out.
Rika!
Hide wherever you want,
but I'm always going
to find you in the end!
[RIKA]
Five more loops.
I'll try to set this world
right for five more loops.
And then, I'll surrender.
I'm certainly not going to
allow you to get away from me.
Pardon me.
Are you Mr. Akasaka?
Yes. I'm Mamoru Akasaka.
Weren't you at that
toy store in Okinomiya?
I'm Satoko Hojo.
I got the sense you
and Rika were acquainted.
Although I'm not
sure how you two met.
We are.
I owe Rika my life.
And so, whatever
she needs from me,
I'll be there to help.
[SATOKO] Then there's
something I need to tell you.
About the real reason behind
what Rika's going through.
[AKASAKA]
The real reason?
[SATOKO] Yes, though most
people would scarcely believe me
if I told them.
The truth is...
Rika is sick.
A parasitic infection
is controlling her.
[AKASAKA] I'm sure
I'll be able to help her.
[laughs]
See?
It'll be okay now!
The parasites were
inside of you too,
but now I got 'em all out!
I'm not gonna let anything
happen to you, Rika!
Of course not.
[AKASAKA]
Dammit, this itching is torture!
I know how to get
rid of these damn bugs!
[AKASAKA] Itchy, itchy,
itchy, itchy, itchy!
How do you like this?
You think you can hide from
a fire, you little fuckers?
[laughs]
[SATOKO]
We're here, Rika!
Please shout if you're okay!
I swear we'll‐‐
[KEIICHI]
Rika, no!
Oh, please.
Someone call
the fire department!
Hurry!
[SATOKO] Rika, I do hope
you'll catch on quickly.
It's the curse
that makes you suffer.
[SATOKO]
For Lord Oyashiro.
has willed it.
[AKANE] This is intolerable,
like bugs digging into my flesh!
[moans]
I can't stop itching.
And I'm sure your tainted blood
must be torturing
you just as much, dear.
Even worse.
Since you cut up
my shoulders so badly,
I can't even lift my arms
to scratch my throat.
You genuinely didn't
deserve to be born
into such a cursed
family as the Furudes.
If only we all could
choose our own fates,
I would never have
had to be born
in this hellmouth of a village!
If only, but the curse of
Hinamizawa was upon us
from our very first breaths,
and a hideous death
is our birthright.
[AKANE] Indeed, all the
misery and pain and itching.
You deserve better.
I'm going to stop
the hurting now!
Yes, you'd be
doing me a kindness.
Please put an end to this.
I'm ready to move on
to the next world.
[AKANE] And once your
Hinamizawa blood is purged,
I'll join you in that world.
Now go!
Who's this, now?
[AKANE]
Little Satoko?
That's not right, is it?
You look just like her,
and yet I couldn't be more sure
that you're somebody else.
Have you seen to
my beloved Rika yet?
I'm rather curious what
leads you to ask that.
Could we simply say I'm
in urgent need of an answer?
Oh.
That spares us
a bit of conversation.
So, a demon lived
among us, after all.
Whoever told you I was a demon?
Well, the blood
of a Furude woman
has always been just the thing
when Lord Oyashiro gets cranky,
and lucky us, I happened to know
exactly where I can get one!
Stop talking.
Yes, yes.
Getting the chance to carry on
your ancestors'
tradition like this,
you must feel so proud.
[RIKA]
Please stop talking.
If you ask me, we're
the only real family heads.
Oryo's half senile by now
and that Mion is
just about useless.
Everyone's forgotten what
they all owe to this village!
Kids these days, I swear.
[RIKA] I get it, so please,
drop me overboard
and let me carry out my role.
Oh! You're the only one
out of the other houses
who understands how important‐‐
[RIKA]
I'd just rather drown
than choke on
your rancid breath.
Don't you talk back
to your elders!
Hear me?
You rotten little girl!
Lord Oyashiro,
please let this be enough!
Show us mercy.
Spare us your rage!
We beg your forgiveness!
[SATOKO]
I suspect she's gone.
As impressive as Rika can be.
I doubt she could
hold her breath
for twice as long
as the world record.
[laughs]
It's really getting
fun now, isn't it, Rena?
Why would you do this, Keiichi?
We were all just hanging
out with our friends!
[KEIICHI laughs] And we're all
having a great time together,
aren't we?
But hey, it's gonna
get even better
once I bust that head
of yours wide open!
It's happening again.
[laughs]
Kinda like being
in club, isn't it?
You're not wrong. But...
This isn't the kind
of world anyone wanted!
It's just a bad dream, Keiichi!
This isn't really you.
So please wake‐‐
It's always someone different,
and there's no way to know
where or when it'll be.
But it will happen.
[EUA laughs]
I could scarcely conceive of
any finer storytellers
than you lot.
May you never fail to satisfy,
O children of man.
I shall continue to
look on with interest
as you weave this
tale and the boredom
that has plagued me
shall surely be kept at bay!
[laughs]
Oh, dear.
My darling failure
has come to join me.
At long last, I've found you!
[RIKA] Next time:
"Kagurashi‐hen, Part 2."